U.S. Weighed Penalizing El Salvador Over Support for China, Then Backed Off
Diplomats noted that the Dominican Republic and Panama had already recognized Beijing, with little pushback from Washington.
Mr. Trump had a warm meeting with President Juan Carlos Varela of Panama in June 2017 and had a hotel in Panama until partners evicted the Trump Organization's management team.
State Department officials decided to call back the American chiefs of diplomatic missions from El Salvador, the Dominican Republic and Panama over the "recent decisions to no longer recognize Taiwan," Heather Nauert, the department's spokeswoman, said in a statement early this month.
But penalties were only considered against El Salvador, which received an estimated $140 million in American aid in 2017, including for narcotics controls, development and economic support.
The proposed penalties, which included cuts to financial aid and targeted visa restrictions, would have been painful for the Central American country and its high unemployment and murder rates.
As internal meetings progressed, North American and Central American officials postponed a high-level conference focused on security and economic prosperity to follow up a similar gathering last year that was seen as a step forward in efforts to prevent migrants from heading to the United States.
But by mid-September, top administration officials made clear that they wanted the conference to go forward, effectively ending any consideration of penalties for El Salvador.
Vice President Mike Pence is now slated to address the conference, now scheduled for mid-October, in a signal of the import the administration places on the gathering, the diplomats said.
And the three American envoys quietly returned to El Salvador, Panama and the Dominican Republic with no new tough messages or punishments from Washington.
A White House spokesman for Mr. Bolton declined to comment on the details of the debate that were described by the three American officials, including two diplomats, who agreed to discuss the internal deliberations on the condition of anonymity.
Their accounts were corroborated by an outside analyst who is close to the administration and also spoke on the condition of anonymity.
